hey folks it's je From Evolution
Unleashed today we're going to compare
chat GPT plus with Gemini advance and
work out once and for all which model is
better now look there's a ton of content
out there saying one is better or the
other is better there's a lot of hate
for chat PT given that it's low and some
people say it's too woke uh and doesn't
do the things that it used to be able to
do and look we understand there's
Hardware limitations holding back the
entire AI IND right now but at the end
of the day we still need to use the
tools as they are today in the best
possible way to create impact so it's
important to understand the capabilities
of each of these models so we know to
use the right one or the one that's
going to give us the best possible
outputs which is what I'm really
concerned about is getting that golden
output so what I've done created a
comparison document which I'm going to
share with you and we're going to test
Gemini versus say chat
GPT across three key metrics or three
key areas the first one is writing which
is the predominant use case that most of
you are using these models for right
articles blogs content for social media
so we're going to put it through its
writing Paces then we're going to look
at how well it does research because I
know many of you are using it for that
as well and then lastly we're going to
look at it in terms of education and
learning and how well it can sort of
aligned learning to our learning styles
so we're going to give each model The
Identical PR in each of these three
categories we're going to compare the
output I'm going to give you the
document and you can make up your own
mind so let's go see who's going to win
the hitto hit battle between chat GPT
plus and Gemini Advanced let's go so
here's the document we've put together
and you'll see on the left in the menu
if you can't see that Folks by the way
just click the show document outline and
that'll bring up the menu so you can
quickly navigate this document it's
quite long uh lots of outputs so we
wanted to find out sort of how they run
so we've got an article writing and to
be fair I've given you the exact prompts
I've used as well which are really cool
prompts that you might find very useful
especially this one which is our most
shared prompt our most popular prompt of
all time and this we're going to put it
through its paces and ask it to write an
article about the personalized output
unlocking the true power of AI which is
a topic very dear to my heart right now
uh so look I'm not going to read you
whole prompt but then what I've done is
I've just taken the very first output I
haven't regenerated I formatted
obviously so it looks the same both have
you know formatting issues so I
formatted them but I've not amended any
of the text or the outputs so I've
included the word counts here and I've
given you the full article and you can
go through and have a look which one you
like best now I can tell you immediately
that the
Gemini the the Gemini out output is much
much easier to read it writes really
really well I'll give it that however I
also thought this is my personal opinion
you get to make up your own because this
document is down in the description
folks you can have a look uh the
personal touch and AI development I
think it gave better information it just
didn't present it very nicely it's very
robotic the way chat GPT writes we all
can recognize cat GPT content a mile
away and that's due to certain embid
characteristics that it's picked up in
its training data because it's trained
on lots of Academia and scientific
papers which have lots of formal
structure and writing language and it's
kind of spilled through into Cat gpt's
writing style so Gemini writes more
naturally but I think subject matter I
would award to cat GPT but of course I'm
very interested to hear your thoughts in
the comments below you can read it and
make up your own mind okay target market
research as a marketer we used to spend
three to four weeks just researching a
target market for our clients and it is
a very critical piece of information
especially in the age of AI because now
we can actually align our marketing
messages with AI to our target market so
that it resonates most powerfully with
the people we want to reach which is
really Incredible use case so I've got a
Persona prompt here again you can read
through the prompt look if you want to
learn how to do these prompts there's a
link at the bottom which will show you
how to build this stuff we got some pre
training as well but for now we just
want to create three personas and we
want to look at their top challenges and
pain points two core emotional drivers
that we can appeal to with a very brief
explanation of each uh for each Persona
please also Identify two of the three
most important values and beliefs they
hold that are relevant to my offer and
for each Persona please outline the top
objections they may have to my offer
okay and then maybe give us a a
potential short marketing message that's
about two three messages so I can just
see how it aligns to the target
market and for the purpose of this I've
made up an example folks same one we've
used in our foundations of marketing
accelerator Frameworks and uh so we've
said that my high level Market is busy
entrepreneurs business owners and high
paid Executives we want the model to
assume the role of a marketing expert
say he going to focus on client
acquisition and how do I help them I
over help them overcome the last barrier
of success their personal health in a
way that's easy to build into the busy
lives so basically our target market is
busy entrepreneurs and Executives and
business owners that don't have time to
work out or don't prioritize their
health but understand that they need to
and want to okay and then you can read
all the rest there but I just want to
give you that um how I've structured
that so you understand the outputs so
here are the outputs now this time I
can't do side by side because it's in a
table so you'll be able to have a look
at each so chat GPT I thought was pretty
good Alex Johnson priia Singh and
Michael Thompson 3845 and 52 so it's
given us three individual personas and
it's given us their hobbies and
interests uh interesting challenges and
pain points no time for regular workouts
struggles with meal planning and healthy
eating due to a busy schedule now this
is one I've personally struggled with I
I get this one right so I've hired a
nutritionist to help me uh as part of my
journey into the AI optimized life more
on that content later um so yeah poor
Alex but Priya she has Stress Management
issues and uh travels a lot so finds it
hard to get some consisten in a routine
and then poor Michael he's balancing
personal health with professional
demands and finding age appropriate
Health routines that fit his lifestyle
given he's a bit older okay so we can
look at their challenges their emotional
drivers their values and beliefs the
common objections and then the marketing
message so so for Alex who is into
running podcast and Entrepreneurship and
cooking he's too busy he doesn't plan
his meals transform your health and the
time it takes to listen to your favorite
podcast so look it's already
personalized to him I think that's quite
brilliant actually as thepoke Health
Solutions fit seamlessly into your
entrepreneurial lifestyle empowering you
to achieve Peak Performance without
compromise whereas for prya achieve the
ultimate balance elevate your health as
you would conquer the world take you
conquer the world she's out traveling
very clever uh Taylor for your Dynamic
executive our program adapts to your
bustling schedule ensuring Wellness
travels with you that is actually really
cleever marketing okay so you can read
the rest now let's go see how Gemini
performed because people have told me
it's great at research well we have to
give a big red raspberry to Gemini
because this is pretty po uh it still
gave us three people Dave Thompson Sarah
Wilson and Alex Martinez uh 42 385 1
similar age groups which is interesting
but look how limited the outputs are
it's still okay you know uh emotional
driv is it's just very bullet pointy uh
and it didn't give me any marketing
messages but it did add this let's break
down why these personas work and then it
gives you a little bit of
information but it didn't really give
you know I found this was a lot less
comprehensive didn't really explain it
and it was very high level so
unfortunately Gemini in terms of
researching Target Market at least with
this prompt didn't do such a good job so
let's see if it can redeem itself in
education and learning now one of the
best use cases for AI that many of you
haven't clicked to yet is to personalize
learning to your learning style now you
can go to
16personalities.com which I've got here
uh a linked to in this document and you
can calculate your Mya's Brig score now
I'm an INTP B- a which is my my score
and I'm going to ask both models to
align a topic on time management and
teach me about it tailored to that
learning style okay because we all have
different learning styles we all learn
differently and one of the exciting
things is we can tailor the output so it
resonates with our learning style so
when you run these prompts for yourself
if you want to be sure to first put in
your own inp score so you'll see here's
my mybs type indicator you'll put your
own in here or you're going to get
output that will resonate with me but
probably not with you unless you're the
same as me okay the topic I want to
learn about is how to incorporate time
management into my busy routines my
current level of understanding I'm a
relative beginner when it comes to time
management so you want to tell it your
sort of level of understanding the topic
you want what's my objective to create
learning material that's aligned to my
Myers Brigg's type indicator in order to
help me learn efficiently so this is
just our prompt structure folks role
context subjective guidelines and
presentation you can learn all about
that I've got some Links at the bottom
of this document which will give you
some free training on how to construct
prompts like this anyway back to the
topic uh the here's the guidelines make
the learning fun and engaging ensure I'm
able to absorb the key Concepts and
required to gain Mastery of the topic I
provide a good mix of learning materials
including exercises and tasks right in a
style that is most likely to resonate
with someone with my Myers Brigg's type
indicator which
iSpa and provide achievable Milestone to
be de detailed and comprehensive use
analogies and metaphors where necessary
to expand and explain the concepts so
once again we can now put the the output
side by side you can see the word count
here cat GPT which is slightly hid but
pretty similar in word count we got a
similar amount of output and then we can
read so both of them decided to tell me
what my learning style is as an INTP
which was really interesting and again I
really like the way that Gemini writes I
thought this was actually quite good
and then it went into the training so
we've got the philosophy of time
management versus the why your person
Zing Fame so I'll just scroll through
this this one has three or four modules
in eight lessons I think Lesson Four
lesson module three lesson six module
eight module 4 lesson s lesson 8 the
Milestones the conclusion oh and we're
way back up
here uh now I've read through these and
I have to say that chat GPT gave me more
information whereas Gemini told me what
to do more go learn this go do that so
it's hard to sort of decide which one
would win I think if I was presented
with both I'd be happy uh but I think in
terms of comprehension and depth uh chat
GPT has the edge over Gemini so folks
that's three key areas that we've looked
at article writing target market
research education and learning and then
I wrote a conclusion but again why not
take the opportunity to see how both
these models rewrite uh so what I did is
I just hastily wrote out my thoughts bit
messy you can actually see them I've got
them in the prompt and then I just asked
both models identically to rewrite my
conclusion okay so here's the prompt I
wrote here's my
conclusion here and then I asked it to
write it in a very naturally sounding
way using simple language it appeals to
the lowest common denom denominators in
terms of read so it's easy to read and
understand reading grade levels blah
blah prompt engineering you can learn
all that stuff if you want but here's
the output and now this was a huge
difference 340 words versus
139 and I have to say I really liked how
cat GPT balanced everything both came up
with similar output but I think I liked
chat gpt's depth better but again the
writing style for Gemini was better now
Folks at the end of this document I've
got some free gifts for you as well
thanks for staying to the end of the
video it's always worthwhile here
because we never know what we're going
to throw in we've got a new project you
decoded which is going to help you align
chat GPT not just to your learning style
but to your wiring your DNA your mindset
your values your personality traits and
more very powerful use case uh a free
custom GPT building guide because custom
gpts are going to transform the way we
use AI models and they're start
communicating with each other very
exciting that's a very complex guide
that I'm giving you and of course how
did you make cool Studios like this I've
got a video coming out uh later in the
week on this that's going to walk you
through it but there's also a document
here that you can access and lastly I'd
like to invite you if you haven't seen
it already we have a wonderful community
in Facebook where you'll get a whole
bunch of really cool resources including
the prompt structure training for free
that I've used in today's prompt
so
folks what is my conclusion after
running these comparisons well you can
read my conclusion in the document but I
have to say chat GPT at least for these
three use cases was far better where Jim
and I Shan was in its in its natural
writing style where cat GPT Shan was in
its depth and nuanced information so if
I had to pick one or the other only I
would clearly go with chat GPT I'm
actually able to change the way it
writes to a point um through prompt
engineering so I can mitigate a lot of
the issues that cgp has whereas Gemini
you can't just make it get smarter or
you can't make it do better than what
we've already got it to do so my
conclusion chat GPT is the winner but
Gemini is getting closer and still has a
lot of very interesting use cases uh
especially when it comes to writing put
it this way if you're having to turn out
500 articles a month I would just use
Gemini because it's going to save you
generating a chat GPT having to then put
it into Gemini having to get it to
rewrite you can just throw the article
writing proper into Gemini the article
is still pretty good and for SEO that
article running problems SEO optimized
you know detail detail detail but that
will help you sort of generate a lot of
Articles so again it really depends on
your use case for me chat GPT wins so
folks I hope you've enjoyed this quick
ation between uh these two models and
I'll see you in the next video with some
more really cool information peace